[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Got two more big media
sections here this afternoon before I turn
you loose.
The first is digging into the data tier
of the application that we've been
looking at today.
And in this, case we're actually gonna
be looking at how to use Node.js
with a relational database.
Anyway, so the stack we're going
to look at is one that's actually.
You know, less less heralded in Node.
Because most of the no
sequel databases out there.
Because they sort of natively speak
JSON end up being a really good fit for
node.js.
But for certain use cases,
there are relational database
does make a lot of sense.
And particularly post grads is actually
a really feature rich relational database
which can do a lot of interesting stuff
that JavaScript can take advantage of.
Particularly with its JSON fields allowing
you within a table to have you know of
a rich query like a unstructured query a
bowl column with JSON data embedded in it.
So still a really great choice for
node.js development.
And specifically,
it allows us to use RDS which is
the managed relational
database service from Amazon
which is very perform entirely
available all those things.
All right.
So if you're gonna be using a relational
database of any kind with Node.js,
the chances are you're probably
gonna go one of two routes.
You're gonna either use a driver for
your database directly.
So just to use pg, or you know postgresql,
or on MySQL driver directly.
Maybe, execute Ross equal against it or
maybe use a SQL builder.
But if you're using an RM, and no JS,
you're probably going to use sequelize.
Sequelize is definitely
the most feature rich or
and that's out there for node.JS today.
So if you're looking for
the type of experience that you might have
enjoyed with say active
record which is kind of for
me I like the gold standard
to which I will compare all.
It definitely has its problems but
I feel like it's a great piece software.
It's probably the closest you're going
to get to that in the node.js world.
That said this is another situation
where if you choose to use Sequelize
the support that you're going to find out
there on the inner webs is not awesome.
There aren't a lot of tutorials.
There aren't a lot of resources,
there aren't a lot of sample apps
that have been built using Sequelize.
So, you're gonna be a little bit in
the wilderness, if you use Sequelize.
The documentation is pretty okay,
but there's a lot of things
that go unsaid that you occasionally have
to dive into the source to figure out.
But all that said it definitely
is of all the out there
on top of a relational database.
I think it's definitely a crime to cram.
But yeah.
As I mentioned isn't SQL for old people
like should we be using no SQL databases.
And there's some reasons why you might
want to consider going with a no SQL
database for
node mostly because the support for
no SQL databases in node is much better.
Like there's a lot more folks
using those technologies,
a lot more resources available.
The libraries are a little bit better for
instance like mongoose which is the ODM
the object Document Map for Mongo DB.
I think is particularly good, but
the main reason that I've gone with SQL
is that postgres itself is
an awesome feature rich database.
RDS was a good choice within our
Amazon centric Ecosystem and
always gonna be the best
data store solution for us.
So the opportunity go it RDS was
it was definitely a driving factor
in making that choice.